I'm going to walk through the basic setup of an account for up work and this is going to be very similar
to other freelancer sites so once you kind of know the process and how to go through this you'll be
able to sign up for a lot of different freelancer sites in similar ways.
So we're just going to go through upward because that is one of the more well-known platforms out there.
So this is what kind of work do you do select up to three categories.
So we're going to be really just focusing on design and creative with Lillian Hernandez but we want
to go ahead and select this one as well because just in case she wants to get into web design or kind
of expand her audience a little bit or her client base we're going to go ahead and look at the future
of what we want to do.
So this is where we're going to basically select our keywords for what we want people to search when
they want to pull up our profiles.
These are gonna be our strongest skill sets.
So we're good to really think about what do we do the best.
That's what we want to focus on.
So you're not going to put every single one every single item you do good to do not only do what you
want to do but also what you think you can deliver the best quality work in.
So in this case we're going to do brand strategy graphic design art direction
we're going to just double check and make sure there's not other ones we think would be more powerful
so perhaps I can on click art direction and go into creative direction that's probably more specific
to what she does so just really we only get to pick five.
So we have to be very picky on what we select and also we won't be able to select any in the web because
it combines all the ones you've selected so five total.
So we leave that out just for now.
I kind of feel like she really needs to focus on the design and creative side where she could search
for your own terms.
So I wanted to love was a design that specialty is not found.
So I get to stick with what we have and go to select specialty so now we need to pick one of these five
that's going to be our specialty.
So this is going to be your top keyword or category that we're going to really focus on.
And for her.
Obviously it's going to be graphic designers.
I you'll do a lot of all of this in graphic design the graphic design is the main overall category that
she'll be applying for jobs in.
So go to skills to select the design deliver deliverables you can provide.
So we could do infographics logo design will be one
brand identity and guidelines social media imagery brochures business cards catalogs
she may not want to do e-books it just depends on this is kind of if you don't want to do a particular
project don't include it if you're not a big fan of doing a particular type of work in your categories
then just don't feel included if you don't want to do a book cover then don't put it on their email
magazine merchandise package Design
Inc.
When you feel like you're done filling out the kind of projects that you can do in your category let's
go ahead move on.
So this is when you get to select your styles.
This is where going through that beginning section of the course and figuring out what your style is
and your goals will all start to come in handy
and this is great because if I don't feel like I have a graffiti style or I can create that I'm not
going to put it.
So this is really nice and being able to fine tune what your particular skill sets are and you might
need to Google some of these and it depends on what industry you're in it will give you different results
than what I have for mine that I'm doing right now.
You might have to Google and figure out do I can I do this style.
Is this something I want to do.
If a client requests this because they might request a specific style and if I don't feel comfortable
with it you know I don't know if I'm going to feel like I want to do it OK so select the software you
can use.
So they'll be able to use any of those not oral draw because you didn't have that software that's OK
to create infographics select the features you can create.
So I can do data visualization or she can flow charts that's getting really specific very specific wide
variety of social media expertise here are experience and working with these platforms.
Just not Snapchat.
So I'm not going include that.
So go to expertise level.
So what level.
Emma and you have to be honest.
Are we entry level or are we just starting.
Most of you guys will be entry level are we intermediate.
Do have we already done some work for a company worked full time for a couple of years.
Our expert.
Have we been in the business for five to 10 years and you feel like you are a leader in the industry.
So for her I'm going to put intermediate she's already had a couple years working for a firm a couple
years doing that.
She's never done freelance before but this is really about how are you in that specific categories of
graphic design.
She's intermediate and experience choose the type of works you like.
All in-person work occasional in-person work or remote work.
Most of you guys are probably going to prefer remote work if there is a lot of opportunity available
locally or you live in a large city then perhaps doing some in-person work might work.
So I'm going to go and select all because I feel like she lives in a bigger city in Virginia and she
wants to kind of see if she can get some in-person work and also of course remote work so hourly rate.
So here's when you might want to skip to that pricing section and kind of look at what you want your
hourly rate to be because this is incredibly important in establishing this we don't want to under charge.
We don't want to cheapen ourselves but we also don't want to overcharge and not get any bids or job
offers.
So we kind of want to find that happy medium where we're respected with the price that we can charge
or we can live off that.
But also we're not overcharging.
So since she is an intermediate level designer she can maybe push this a little higher than normal.
But honestly this is such an oversaturated platform.
I would actually do a lower hourly rate than you would normally charge a client just to kind of get
some of the job initial job so they can get some reviews on your profile because that's everything if
you don't have a review on your profile.
A lot of clients are going to skip over you.
So you want to get those initial high reviews so to get that kind of have to lower that hourly rate
lower than maybe you feel comfortable with at first.
Once you get a few client work jobs done and they leave reviews then you're able to increase that hourly
rate a little bit more.
So we're going to start off with a a much lower rate for the United States and for her intermediate
experience level that I would feel comfortable with.
But I think it'll help us land those first couple of gigs our jobs and then we can be able to get some
reviews and social proof.
So this is where we can add our Web site.
We already went through that profile portfolio Web site building process.
So we have that already ready so we go and paste that in there.
I'm just putting mine on there because I don't have a domain name for Lily and yet just because she's
an example of a search she's kind of representing me throughout this classing to put my personal Web
site and it says a portfolio increases the chances of getting hired by five times and may qualify you
for special programs.
So this is why getting that Web site set up or a portfolio setup is so critical.
So she's had some intermediate experience and a larger company working in-house as a graphic designer.
So going to put large businesses not quite Fortune 500 companies and we're going to have to list who
she worked for
enter school and education.
I think this is important if you have any education to listed just like looking at someone's resumé
if they see that you have some real qualifying experience that helps and even putting Udemy courses
or skill share courses you've taken that are totally applicable to your line of work can also be used.
This is where we add our profile image.
I talked a little bit in prior lessons about how cropping that really nicely works really focusing in
on the face.
Make sure you have a nice smile.
Make sure it's clean edited sharp lines there's nothing blurry there's nothing pixilated has a nice
background image so if you want to take it outside behind a nice green tree you want to take it behind
your desk with your computer and your background.
If you're a painter or illustrator have have it taken in your studio lots and lots of light.
This profile image a lot of people when they look at your profile image and maybe the only image they
see of you.
So if it's done in a professional manner and you look like you're smiling and you're professional and
you're doing the right things people really make judgments based on profile images and it's kind of
a sad reality of how we are as humans.
But you need to have something that that puts your best foot forward because people do judge if it's
pixilated if it looks like it's taken in a dark room if it just doesn't look like you're a real professional
you know make sure you wear a nice professional clothing.
If you're an artist make sure you have something bright and vivid that goes along with your style.
All sorts of things you could do sometimes wearing glasses can help you know if you do wear glasses.
Don't be afraid to put those on.
That could make you look really professional.
So yeah it's just doing those little things to get that image looking as nice as possible.
So is going to give you a chance to crop.
I'm just using my image because I didn't want to use the image of Lillian Hernandez because that's a
created person that didn't want to put that photo on there and have any legal problems so I'm using
my own photo to crop this in as much as we want.
And notice how it's focusing on the head.
It's got some nice background imagery.
I might even find a different photo where perhaps the House is not in there I can always clone that
out in Photoshop but it's kind of finding a nice smiling high lighting photo.